---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 6: The Measured Words: How Computers Analyze Text\""
date:   2022-9-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
In the chapter “The Measured Words: How Computers Analyze Text”, Rockwell and Sinclair outline various methodologies that are employed by computers when performing text-based analysis. The authors discuss how data is represented in computers and use this as justification for the fact that computers lack certain capacities. Throughout the article, Rockwell and Sinclair discuss certain specific uses that programs have, while emphasizing the fact that there are large limitations to what computers can do.

Rockwell and Sinclair identify the ways that computers store data, and outline some of their use cases. As an example, they credit that computers are “good at following long, tedious, and complex instructions carefully”. They note that computers do not succumb to bias, as computers cannot be influenced by their analysis. The authors also note the use of computers as a supplement to the study of the humanities, saying tools to “break a text into units that can be searched, counted, graphed, and recombined for further interpretation” are still desirable. In these aspects, Rockwell and Sinclair do not completely discredit the benefit of computation in the humanities.

While Rockwell and Sinclair see some applications in computing for text analysis, they believe computers do not serve as a suitable substitute for human analysis. The authors state that “Computers cannot yet begin to approximate graduate level interpretive skills”.  Clearly, the two authors are skeptical that the processing power of computer can perform significant analysis of the text, but instead perform routine algorithms. Rockwell and Sinclair further this point by saying that “machines do not think the way we do, even if they can mimic thinking behavior”.  The authors stress that the ability of machines to imitate analysis and synthesis should not be confused with human analysis. Instead, we must remember that this processing is artificial, and no analysis is being performed.

After the reading, I wondered why Rockwell and Sinclair did not believe computers to be capable of true analysis. They noted that computers are just a way of performing actions in a language that humans did not understand. However, they do not seem to credit that the algorithm is designed by humans. Are the various analyses necessary not expressed in the algorithm or design of the code?

