---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 5 : “Sacred reading: from Augustine to the Digital Humanists”\""
date:   2022-9-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
In “Sacred reading: from Augustine to the Digital Humanists”, Wellmon discusses some of the modern opinions surrounding the digital humanities. He discusses how many modern humanists fear the digitization of humanities research, while arguing that instead we should have an appreciation for this new approach towards humanities research. Wellmon considers the teachings of Augustine as a framework for presenting his argument. Throughout this reading, Wellmon demonstrates that there exists a fear and distaste towards the digital humanities, and that the digital humanities are a practice we should appreciate.

Wellmon discusses how many people consider the digital humanities a danger to traditional humanities work. He notes that writers such as those for the New Yorker “warn of the cultural collapse being ushered in by the digital humanities.” For these groups, the growth of the digital humanities marks the beginning of the end of traditional humanities practices. Wellmon further emphasizes the existence of these beliefs, citing Marche’s opinions towards the digitization of books. Wellmon cites Marche’s opinion, noting that this digitization “treats all literature ‘as if it were the same’”, “removes distinction”, and “removes all refinement from criticism”. It is apparent that those that think similarly to Marche fear that we will lose our appreciation for the works through increased digitization. This is because the digital humanities promote a “distant reading”, without giving a literary piece enough time for critique. 

Throughout the text, Wellmon also indicates that he believes that these claims about the digital humanities are largely unfounded. After describing the criticism that digital humanities are a danger to our culture, for example, Wellmon notes that most scholars use these tools for “marking, annotating, visualizing, and collecting texts”. These applications can be considered valid supplements to traditional humanities research, without altering these practices. Furthermore, the digital humanities provide functionality that traditional humanities are unable to. Through “computational reading”, we are able to analyze a larger volume of literature, a burden that the traditional humanities “cannot possibly sustain”.

During this reading, I began to wonder the reasons behind the fear towards the implications of the digital humanities. Wellmon noted that certain people feared a loss of culture. Would these same people fear the integration of new technologies into society for fear of change? Are these fears only geared towards their livelihood?


