---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 3: An Overview of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\""
date:   2022-9-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
In “An Overview of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire”, Pocock discusses Gibbon’s The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire in detail, offering his own opinions and insights into the work.  Pocock describes his method in analyzing Gibbon’s text, and other considerations he made throughout his analysis. Throughout this reading, Pocock makes note of the varying perspectives Gibbon employs throughout The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, and the effect these shifting perspectives have on the literature.

Pocock identifies that throughout Gibbon’s work, various perspectives of history are considered. For example, Pocock identifies that Gibbon presents a “two-sided history of how the empire was ground down from Crusaders from the west … and Turks from the East. By considering both perspectives in historical analysis, it may be true that Gibbon provided a more accurate and holistic view of events that transpired. In later discussion, Pocock notes that Gibbon uses “long-range perspective” in one of his sections. This is a rather broad approach, which considers the effects across the West and the East alike.

However, it is important to note that Pocock himself considers these additional narratives to detract from the value of Gibbon’s work. Pocock is of the belief that, while “there was some relationship between the addition and a narrative of continuing history”, these additional topics are only vaguely relevant, and make it harder to follow the central storyline of the fall of the Roman Empire.

After this reading, I wondered why Pocock had such strong opinions on Gibbon’s additional chapters. If these chapters do not directly add value in analyzing the fall of the Roman Empire, perhaps they can still be considered relevant in other historical contexts. Do these chapters have any historical relevance? Or are they as uninspiring and as worthless as Pocock makes them seem?
