---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 4: Technology Is Taking Over English Departments\""
date:   2022-9-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

In "Technology Is Taking Over English Departments", Adam Kirsh discusses the emergence and potential role of the Digital Humanities in society. He talks about how Digital Humanities is currently used in certain projects, and provides his opinions on the use of Digital Humanities moving forwards. Throughout the article, Kirsh notes that he believes the practice of Digital Humanities is not practical as a field of study. He further develops this idea, demonstrating to the reader that even if the Digital Humanities were practical, they do not have a use or role in sophisticated study of the humanities.

Kirsh emphasizes the fact that Digital Humanities is not practical. He mentions the various kinds of disciplines necessary to even begin work on a DH project, and says that "there is no budget line in most departments for the kind of specialists" in order to "make a digital humanities project come together". Here, Kirsh emphasizes the monetary obligations that DH projects can introduce. He continues to emphasize the point that pursuing DH projects is simply not practical by discussing the vast spread of disciplines required. He says it is not practical for a student to learn a humanities curriculum "that can already stretch for ten years or more" and then expand it to include programming.

Throughout this reading, Kirsh also emphasizes the fact that even if the Digital Humanities were practical, they would still not have a use in society. He quotes McGann, stating that "we are not even close to developing browser interfaces to compare with the interfaces that have evolved in the past 500 years of print technology". Kirsh not only believes that the digital humanities are not practical, but that they are inferior to the traditional humanities.

After this reading, I couldn't help but feel Kirsh was not successfully adapting to the evolving nature of technology. In the 8 years since this article was written, has his view changed? Have the Digital Humanities evolved enough to demonstrate their use?

