---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 7: The Collaborative Musical Text\""
date:   2022-9-21 18:21:49 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---
In "The Collaborative Musical Text", Richard Freedman discusses the effects of technological progress on musical research. Freedman focuses the majority of his discussion on how digitization (through the rise of the digital humanities) has affected musical research. Throughout the article, Freedman discusses the evolving nature of collaboration as a result of increasing digitization, as well as how the field is changing as a result of digital work. 

Freedman notes that collaboration in musical research has changed as a result of the rise of digital humanities. He notes that, "while the traditional model of the solitary humanist ... is not going away anytime soon", there is an increased emphasis on collaboration in the field. Freedman notices a trend that projects are increasingly reliant on the "collaborative efforts of scholars, librarians, digital scholars, and information technology specialists". In the past, music and other humanities research was more achievable through the work of an individual, but due to the rise in technology and interdisciplinary nature of the research, collaboration is a necessity. Freedman identifies that, "during the last decade in particular, the humanistic workplace has begun to resemble 'big data' ...  with extended rings of collaborators".

Throughout the text, Freedman also notes his beliefs on the role that digitization will play on music research. He provides a relatively unbiased view on the digitization of the humanities, noting that "digital resources will enhance printed ones". This belief has been expressed in previous class readings with bias towards or against digitization. Freedman identifies that this digitization will create new "means for controlling the effects and purposes of music".

I began to wonder why Freedman maintains a neutral view of the digital humanities. In many of the other assigned readings, the authors do not maintain a neutral stance.  I found myself wondering how Freedman is able to remain impartial. Has digitization always been a part of music? Is Freedman's career not at risk due to the effects of increased digitization?
